Native Name 	Eindra Kyaw Zin
Born		April 24, 1977(age 41)
		Yangon, Myanmar
Occupations	Actress, Model
Years active	1998-present
Spouse(s)	Pyay Ti Oo
Children	Pyay Thudra, Pyay D Ya
Parents		U Kyaw Zin, Daw Mya Thiha
Awards		Myanmar Academy Awards(2004,2017)

Eindra Kyaw Zin is a Myanmar Academy Award winning film actress and TV commercial model. Kyaw Zin, an amateur painter, is one of the stars of the Burmese entertainment industry. She is best known for winning the 2004 Myanmar Academy Award as best actress in the film Flirtatious Sky.

Early life
Eindra Kyaw Zin was born to a well-to-do family in Yangon, the youngest child of Mya Thida and Kyaw Zin. She is a granddaughter of Bo Zeya, one of the Thirty Comrades that founded the modern Burmese Army, a niece of Dagon Taya, a writer, and a first cousin of singer Hayma Ne Win and singer and film star Yaza Ne Win. Kyaw Zin graduated from Yangon's Dagon 1 High School. She holds a B.Sc. degree in Chemistry.

Career

In an interview with The Myanmar Times, Kyaw Zin admitted that film was not her initial choice of a career. Rather she envisioned herself as an independent artist or a doctor but had to reevaluate her options after getting sub-par grades in school. Her first foray into the entertainment industry came by way of a local beauty contest. She won the Miss Kokkine contest in 1998, and then went on to win Miss Christmas that same year. For the next two years she appeared in magazines and modeling shows. In 2000, she scored her big break as an actress in the film Pyaw Lai Kya Ya Aung (Let’s Have Great Fun) as the lead actress.

Ironically, her film career in the early 2000s was handicapped by the top leading man of that day, Yaza Ne Win, her first cousin. In 2003, she spoke to Chiangmai-based The Irrawaddy magazine that "I have limited opportunities to act in current popular movies. In the movies, I can only perform sibling roles with my first cousin and we can not shoot love scenes." As it is leading men who score big at the box office in Burma, and being cast aside male superstars is an actress’s best chance at fame.

Kyaw Zin won the 2004 Myanmar Academy Award, playing a villain role in the movie, Flirtatious Sky. She continues to act in films and model for commercials. Although she is over 30, she is still a top model and actress in an industry full of young starlets.

Political views
In December 2003, the Burmese actress was accused by The Irrawaddy for displaying " conspicuous patriotism". When the Thai film Bang Rajan—which featured scenes of one of Burma’s 18th century invasions of the Thai kingdom—was screened at a Pan-Asian film festival in France in early 2001, Kyaw Zin stormed out of the theater before the film’s end. Its director, Thanit Jitnukul, who took home the festival’s Best Director award, recounted meeting Kyaw Zin that day. "She was very friendly at first," Thanit said. "Then she asked me about my movie. I told her its name, and she refused to talk to me again."

Marriage

She married actor Pyay Ti Oo on 1 January 2011. She gave birth to her first-born daughter on 14 October 2011 and to her son on 27 August 2015.

Social work
Eindra Kyaw Zin is socially involved with the community and various Burmese charities and is considered by her peers to be a good role model for young women in the country. 