Native name	Htun Eeindra Bo
Birth name	Mi Mi Khaing
Born		1 May 1966 (age 52)
Origin		Mogok, Mandalay Division, Myanmar
Genres		Pop, Country
Occupation(s)	actress, singer
Instruments	Vocals, acoustic guitar
Years active	1991–present
Website		www. htunaeindrabo.asia

Htun Eeindra Bo ; also Tun Eindra Bo; born 1 May 1966) is a three-time Myanmar Academy Award-winning actress and singer. The Mogok native began her film career in 1991, and has achieved fame and success as an actor and singer. Now in her 40s, she is still a household name in Myanmar and continues to make films and performs in concerts.
Contents

    1 Background
    2 Career
    3 Personal life
    4 Discography
        4.1 Solo albums
        4.2 Duet Albums
        4.3 Collaborative Albums
    5 Achievements and awards
    6 References

Background

Htun Eeindra Bo was born Mi Mi Khine to Khin Mya Mya and Khin Maung Thein on 1 May 1966. She was the middle child of three; she had an elder brother and a younger sister. Her family was in the jewellery business. Mi Mi Khine was interested entertainment since she was little. She was singing Burmese songs at age four and by age eleven, she began to sing at local concerts.[1]

She graduated with a law (LLB) degree.

Career

Mi Mi Khine entered the entertainment industry with a direct-to-video film, called Kyeza Hnalontha (Professional Heart) in 1991. She released her first album in 1993 with songs by Maung Thit Min and Myo Kyawt Myaing.[1]

She has made over 100 movies in her career.
Personal life

She is married to Aung Minn Tun, and they have a son.

Discography
Solo albums

    Min Atwet Pe(Only For You) (1993)
    Na-Le Thint-Bi(You Should Understand)
    Einmet Nya Mya(Dreamy Nights)
    So Yin(If So ...)
    1999
    Yiza Oo(First Love)
    Nay-Ya Lay Takhu(One Place)
    Nha-Youk Ma Shi Bu(There is no one)
    Sanda Shi Thaw Ah Haung Myar(Oldies that I desire)
    Tanta Nay Ze( Still wanting )
    Diary

Duet Albums

    Gandaya Cafe(Desert Cafe) with Ringo and Alex
    Hsohn-Naing Gwint(Chance of Being Together) with Alex
    Thone-Youk Zaga(Three People Talk) with Tin Zar Maw and Madi
    Mohn Lo Ma Ya De Chitthu Tway(Couple who can't hate each other) with Dwe
    Myetsi Hmeit-pi Chit Lai Pa(Close you eyes and love it) with Tin Zar Maw
    Ta Gae Ma Chit Bae Nae(Don't really love) with Myo Kyawt Myaing

Collaborative Albums
A-Paing-A-Sa 1.5(Fragment 1.5)
A-Phyu-Yaung Thangegyin Tho(To White-Colored Friend)
Honeymoon Khayi(Honeymoon Trip) -Saw Bwe Hmu Remembrance
Mei Daw Ma Mei Bu(Haven't Forgotten) -L Khun Yi Live Show
Min Atwet(For You)
Alphne Thingyan

    Lu Min Wedding
    Romanson Live Show
    City FM


