NAT TOE
Native name	Nay Lin Aung
Born		September 9, 1981 (age 36)
		Manaung, Rakhine State, Myanmar (Burma)                  
Other names	Zin Min, Nyi Toe, Ko Latt
Occupation	Actor, Model, Comedian, Singer
Parent(s)	Aung Than (father), Than Myaing (mother)
Awards		Best Actor, Myanmar Academy Award (2009, 2015, 2017)
Website		Official Nay Toe's Fan Page on Facebook

Nay Toe [nè tó]; born Nay Lin Aung on 9 September 1981) is a three-time Myanmar Academy Award winning film actor and a comedian with the Burmese traditional dance troupe Htawara Hninzi. He is well known for his role as 'Tar Tar'in the 2017 film Tar Tar Gyi.He won his first Academy Award for best actor with the 2009 film Moe Nya Einmet Myu and won second academy award for best leading actor in 2015 in Nat Khat Mhar Tae Tite Pwal.He won his third academy award in"Tar Tay Gyi" in 2018.

Nay Toe was born as Nay Lin Tun on 9 September 1981 to ethnic Rakhine parents, Than Myaing and her husband Aung Than in Manaung, Rakhine State. Being the second-born child in the family, Nay Toe has an elder brother as well as a younger brother and a younger sister. His younger brother is also actor.

He did not have any connections to the Burmese film industry before starting out his career as a Model and eventually as an Actor.

Early Work

To commence his career as an artist, Nay Toe moved to Yangon in 1999 and joined the YIIK modeling agency and took singing lessons given by Saw Nue. He gained some titles in modeling contests. His artist name as a Model was Zin Min. His teenage dream was to become a composer and singer. He eventually released a collaborative album in the early 2000, but it was not a hit album.

In the early days of his career, he started to gain recognition by starring in music videos. At the same time, he was attracted to the art of acting and started to educate himself with what would be needed to become a good actor. However, he did not go to any formal school or training courses to study acting.

By 2001, he starred in a movie named 3 Weeks which was the first film for him to take part in leading actor role.With the continued perseverance and dedication in his creation of art, he has increasingly gained recognition by Burmese audience, from time to time. 

From 2007 to Present
Eternal Rose group performed as comedians in Singapore
Nay Toe performing as a comedian together with Eternal Rose Anyeint in Singapore on 6 March 2011.

Since 2007, Nay Toe has made a name on the stage with Htawara Hninzi (Eternal Rose) Burmese cultural dance show (Anyeint) troupe in which he is one of the supporting comedians along with Tun Tun, Moe Moe, Ye Lay and Kyaw Kyaw Bo. The director of the show is Maung Myo Min. Their shows have been hugely accepted by the resident Burmese audiences as well as Burmese migrants around the globe. Their shows reflect current socio-economic situations.

Since then he has gained fame and recognition as a very outstanding performer not only on the movie screen but also on the stage.

Another remarkable event in 2011 was winning the Academy trophy in Moe Nya Einmet Myu movie as the best leading actor.It was chosen out of 16 films screened in the country in 2009. His role in the movie was said to be intricate as the character he portrayed in the movie was suffering from multiple personality disorder and displayed three different personalities throughout the story.

He graduated from Yangon University with a B.Sc. in Mathematics. 