Phway Phway
Native name	Phway Phway
Born		Shwe Yee Ko Oo
		9 August 1988 (age 29)
		Mogok, Myanmar
Nationality	Burmese
Alma mater	University of Foreign Languages, Yangon
Occupation	Actress, Model
Years active	2007–present
Parent(s)	Mg U Theingi
Awards	Myanmar Academy Award (Best Lead Actress for 2012) Let Pan
Myanmar Academy Award (Best Lead Actress for 2015) I'm Rose,Darling

Phway Phway (born 9 August 1988) is a two-time Myanmar Academy Award winning actress and model in Myanmar. She is a well-known actress in Burmese Entertainment Industry.

She won her first Myanmar Academy Award in 2012 with Let Pan and achieved her second award in 2015 with I'm Rose, Darling. Both films were directed by Academy Wyne (film director).Phway Phway was listed as the Second Youngest Academy Award Winner after Soe Pyae Thazin. Phway Phway's fan called her "Phway Sein".

Contents

    1 Early life
    2 Career
    3 Personal life
    4 Direct-to-video
        4.1 Films (Big Screen Movies)
    5 Awards and nominations
    6 References
    7 External links

Early life

Phway Phway was born Shwe Yee Ko Oo on 9 August 1988 in Mogok. She graduated from the Kamayut 2 High School in 2004, and the University of Foreign Languages, Yangon with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Korean in 2008.

Career

Phway Phway had a great interest in becoming a singer as a child. She and her friends formed a band, "Art of Depression" with her as a vocalist. At university, she began modeling; her first modeling opportunity was for the MAX Calendar in 2007 with the name "Shwe Yee Ko Oo" which is her birth name. Then she named herself as "Phway Phway" as her actress name. Her modeling career led to appearing in music videos and TV commercials, and direct-to-video films. She starred in over 100 video films and appeared on many magazine covers. She was awarded a successful new face actor in 2009 People Magazine Award and the best leading actress in "Lat Pan" movie (which was her very first movie) in Myanmar Academy Awards 2012.

Personal life

Besides acting, singing and modeling, Phway Phway also has great interest in fashion designing. She believes that if she was not involved in the entertainment industry, she would have studied fashion and created her own label. She is the cousin of Myanmar model and actress Wut Hmone Shwe Yee. 