Native name	Sai Sai Kham leng
Born		10 April 1979 (age 39)[1]
		Taunggyi, Shan State, Burma (now Myanmar)
Genres		R&B, Hip hop
Occupation(s)	Singer-songwriter, rapper, actor
Instruments	Guiter, Piano, Flute, Violin, Vocal
Years active	1999–present
Website		saisaionline.com

Sai Sai Kham Leng (also Sai Sai Kham Hlaing; born 10 April 1979) is a well-known Burmese singer-songwriter, model, novelist, and actor of ethnic Shan descent. He is known for his hip hop music.

Contents

    1 Early life and education
    2 Career
    3 Personal life
    4 Humanitarian work
    5 Discography
        5.1 Studio Albums
        5.2 Collaborative albums
    6 Filmography
    7 Novels
    8 References
    9 External links

Early life and education

Sai Sai Kham Leng was born on 10 April 1979 in Taunggyi, Shan state to Cho Cho San Tun and Kham Leng of an ethnic Shan aristocratic family. His great-grandfather Sao San Tun, Saopha of Mongpawn, was a signatory to the 1947 Panglong Agreement and one of nine senior government officials assassinated on 19 July 1947.

Sai Sai Kham Leng is the eldest son and has two younger sisters and a younger brother. Soon after he was born, his parents moved to nearby Aungban for two years before moving back to Taunggyi. He went to B.E.H.S (1) Taunggyi. His parents divorced when he was in the 4th standard (4th grade). He was living in two homes soon after divorce but ended up with his father. He did not see his mother for another six years.Sai Sai Kham Leng became a judo player in the eighth standard. He won district level competitions in high school, and even participated in national youth competitions in Yangon.

Sai Sai Kham Leng moved to Yangon and enrolled in the English major program in Dagon University. He received his bachelor's degree in English from Dagon University and a graduate diploma in English from the University of Foreign Languages, Yangon.[citation needed]

Career
Sai Sai Kham Leng's album release performance in Yangon, 2012

In 2000, Leng launched his debut album Chocolate Yaung Yayge Einmet (Chocolate-Colored Ice Dreams). The follow-up album Thangegyin Myar Swar (Graduation: Friends Forever) was released in 2001.In his 2012 album Date Date Kyal, he included a song named (Summary of the story till now) about his life. He celebrates his birthday shows in April eachyear, gaining thousands of ticket sales which is a large number in Myanmar.[citation needed]

Personal life

Sai Sai Kham Leng is single and lives in Yangon. In an interview with People Magazine Myanmar in May 2009, he expressed that he was unsure about marriage as he comes from a "broken family". His relationship with actress Wut Hmone Shwe Yee was one of the most controversial relationships.They never made their relationship public and they broke up after some years.[citation needed]

Sai Sai Kham Leng is a Theravada Buddhist.